NOTEST FOR NOTIFICATIONS

There are around 5 main types of noification and them are
1.Local Notification
2.Push Notification
3.In app Notification
4.Heads up Notification
5.Background Notification


1.Local Notification

Local notifications are scheduled by an application and delivered on the same device. They don’t require a network connection to be delivered. They are used to notify users about events that are happening inside the app. For example, a calendar app might use local notifications to alert users of an upcoming appointment.

2.Push Notification

Push notifications are sent by a server to a user’s device. They require a network connection to be delivered. They are used to notify users about events that are happening outside the app. For example, a news app might use push notifications to alert users of breaking news.

3.In app Notification

In-app notifications are displayed inside the app itself. They are used to notify users about events that are happening inside the app. For example, a messaging app might use in-app notifications to alert users of new messages.

4.Heads up Notification

Heads-up notifications are a type of notification that appears at the top of the screen and overlays other content. They are used to notify users about important events that require immediate attention. For example, a messaging app might use heads-up notifications to alert users of an incoming message.

5.Background Notification

Background notifications are notifications that are delivered to an app when it is running in the background. They are used to notify users about events that are happening outside the app. For example, a weather app might use background notifications to alert users of severe weather conditions.


Types of Local notifications

1. Immediate Notification : Immediate notifications are delivered to the user’s device as soon as they are scheduled. They are used to notify users about events that are happening inside the app. For example, a calendar app might use immediate notifications to alert users of an upcoming appointment.

2. Scheduled Notification : Scheduled notifications are delivered to the user’s device at a specific time. They are used to notify users about events that are happening inside the app. For example, a reminder app might use scheduled notifications to alert users of an upcoming task.

3. Recurring Notification : Recurring notifications are delivered to the user’s device at regular intervals. They are used to notify users about events that happen on a regular basis. For example, a fitness app might use recurring notifications to remind users to exercise every day.

4. Location-based Notification : Location-based notifications are delivered to the user’s device when the user enters or exits a specific location. They are used to notify users about events that are happening nearby. For example, a travel app might use location-based notifications to alert users of nearby attractions.

5. Silent Notification : Silent notifications are delivered to the user’s device without making a sound or displaying an alert. They are used to notify users about events that don’t require immediate attention. For example, a weather app might use silent notifications to update users on the current weather conditions.

6. Remote Notification : Remote notifications are delivered to the user’s device by a server. They are used to notify users about events that are happening outside the app. For example, a news app might use remote notifications to alert users of breaking news.

7. Grouped Notification : Grouped notifications are multiple notifications that are grouped together to reduce clutter. They are used to notify users about related events. For example, a messaging app might use grouped notifications to display multiple messages from the same sender.

8. Custom Notification : Custom notifications are notifications that are customized to match the look and feel of the app. They are used to provide a consistent user experience. For example, a music app might use custom notifications to display album artwork and playback controls.

9. Big Picture Notification : Big picture notifications are notifications that include a large image. They are used to provide additional context to the user. For example, a news app might use big picture notifications to display a photo of the breaking news story.


